how can we apply stoicism in our daily
lives this is what a book practical
stoicism exercises for doing the right
thing right now is all about robbing
Homer offered me the opportunity to
listen to the audible version of this
book which he narrated so I did author
gray Freeman argues that the most
important thing about stoicism is the
actual application of the philosophy in
our daily lives so if you're
enthusiastic about stoicism and want to
reap the benefits by actually applying
this philosophy this book may be a very
interesting read
why should we get out of bed early and
watch the Sun Shine and what to tell
ourselves when we have difficulties
doing so how do we bring stoic
philosophy out of the world of the
theoretical into our daily lives the
idea to write the book practical
stoicism was born on a very active
stoicism read it as an answer to the
following question so how exactly does
one actually do this
stoic thing yes we can go on and on
about stoic values ethics virtues etc
which is in my opinion a very
pleasurable thing to do but at some
point it's time to turn words into deeds
stoic teachers like epictetus Seneca and
ma Sonia's Rufus left us with a treasure
of wisdom which is universally
applicable and timeless but because of
the quantity of the ancient stoic texts
it's not always an easy task to find
clear instructions that we can use when
we face a specific problem author gray
Freeman managed to extract a series of
valuable lessons from the stoic texts
that can help to improve our lives and
turn them into about a hundred exercises
every exercise is backed by a quote so
we can see where it came from when I
first read the book it reminded me a bit
of an updated version of epictetus and
karidian which was also meant to be a
handbook that we can take with us so we
have our philosophical band-aid within
arm's reach when necessary what I like
about this book is that the instructions
are much more accessible for people in
the current age while the ancient Stoics
will talk about being attached to
ceramic cups and gladiator fights in the
arena this book uses contemporary
scenarios like the excessive use of
caffeine and our collective addiction to
soap operas and social media all stoic
concepts like the premeditates yom
elohim translated negative visualization
and momento movie translated the
remembrance of our mortality are
seamlessly integrated
in a modern context and concisely
explained any exercise brace for trolls
Freeman tells us that on any given day
we will meet some jerks at least if we
go outside and participate in the world
here's an audio clip on how to handle
these jerks consider how you will handle
them philosophically go through the
mental play-acting of not losing your
cool of acknowledging that they could
only act as they do consider how you
will preserve your serenity and remain
above the fray admit that you have your
faults - and sometimes you hide them
better than other times many of the
exercises are geared towards
self-reflection by retreating in oneself
assessing the situation considering
worst-case scenarios and enjoying
silence the Stoics spend time to self
reflect by journaling and reviewing all
daily events examining them closely to
see if something could have gone better
one exercise
I liked specifically is called turn it
around which is actually an excellent
way to reflect on conflict and
encounters with quote unquote toxic
people because in many cases we could
have handled the situation in a
different way in many situations with a
little reflection you will find an error
on your own part that has contributed to
any conflict you might be experiencing
if you are not in conflict the fact that
you have put yourself forward as the
judge of another without knowing all
that has led them to where they are is
fault enough to consider it is also
likely that you have yourself being
tempted to act in a similar manner you
may have on occasion even given in to it
Freeman makes a profound statement when
he says that our only concern is
improving our own faults and that the
only interest we should take in a faults
of others is to see if there's a lesson
in it for us another thing that this
book offers are exercises to live in the
present moment explaining why we should
focus on the task at hand
and prevent our minds to drift off to
the past and the future also a recurring
theme of the book is death and the
reminders of death because we never know
when death comes it could be today it
could be tomorrow so with this in mind
we may want to appreciate our greatest
commodity a bit more which is time
the Stoics wanted their time to be well
spent which reflects in a work if we
know that our lives are taking away
second by second we might want to think
twice before we go on a Netflix binge or
spend our weekends hungover from
spending Friday night in the club so do
not expect this book to be a long read
or a literary masterpiece because that's
not what you get it's rather an
instruction manual then a long
philosophical plea and this is by design
so if you want to enrich your knowledge
about stoicism in a more intellectual
direction then I don't think that this
book will satisfy you but if you're
looking to apply stoicism I think it
will practical stoicism is a nice
valuable guide that can help people that
are stuck in certain situations or
simply want to use stoicism to improve
their lives the book offers exercises
for a variety of day-to-day situations
and things like what company to seek and
how to behave in conversation I would
say it's something to listen to when
you're traveling to work to prepare for
the day or to take with you in your bag
or suitcase so you can consult it when
you're looking for some stoic wisdom to
guide you if you're interested in
purchasing the book I've put a link in
the description thank you for watching
[Music]